bit stuff (#3006)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/4_Gold/PURS.mdx

#### Solution 1

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cassert>
#include <vector>

using std::cout;
using std::endl;
using std::vector;

/**
 * Short for "binary indexed tree",
 * this data structure supports point update and range sum

>  * queries like a segement tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * queries like a segment tree.
```

 * */
template<class T>
class BIT {
	private:
		int size;
		vector<T> bit;
		vector<T> arr;
	public:
		BIT(int size) : size(size), bit(size + 1), arr(size) { }

> 		/** Sets the value of index ind at the actual array to vall. */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		/** Sets the value at index ind to val. */
```

		void set(int ind, int val) {
			add(ind, val - arr[ind]);
		}

		/** Adds val to the element at index ind. */
		void add(int ind, int val) {
			arr[ind] += val;
			ind++;
			for (; ind <= size; ind += ind & -ind) {
				bit[ind] += val;
			}
		}

		/** @return The sum of all values in [0, ind]. */

> 		T pref_sum(int ind) {

Reviewer: why not just call it `sum`

Author: `sum`? `sum` of what?

			ind++;
			T total = 0;
			for (; ind > 0; ind -= ind & -ind) {
				total += bit[ind];
			}
			return total;
		}
};

int main() {
	int arr_len;
	int query_num;
	std::cin >> arr_len >> query_num;

	BIT<long long> bit(arr_len);
	for (int i = 0; i < arr_len; i++) {
		int n;
		std::cin >> n;
		bit.set(i, n);
	}

	for (int q = 0; q < query_num; q++) {
		int type;
		std::cin >> type;
		if (type == 1) {
			int ind;
			int val;
			std::cin >> ind >> val;

> 			bit.set(ind - 1, val);

Reviewer: either do `ind - 1` or `--ind`. Make up your mind

<CPPSection>

Using an indexed set, we can solve this in just a few lines.

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

#include <ext/pb_ds/assoc_container.hpp>
using namespace __gnu_pbds;
template <class T> using Tree = tree<
	T, null_type, less<T>,
	rb_tree_tag, tree_order_statistics_node_update
>;

int main() {
	int test_num;
	cin >> test_num;
	for (int t = 0; t < test_num; t++) {
		Tree<int> tree;
		
		int arr_len;
		cin >> arr_len;
		long long inv_num = 0;
		for (int i = 0; i < arr_len; i++) {
			int x;
			cin >> x;
			/*
			 * .order_of_key(x) gives the # of elements

> 			 * in the tree that are greater than x.

Reviewer 2: strictly less than right?

Author: <img width="244" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/55369003/185267417-a6116e41-2356-415a-8735-83fa2267ccfc.png">
this is the OG comment

Reviewer 2: <img width="720" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/81596991/185267494-7f1ecc9c-6897-421a-8d0a-177544bb3a02.png">

Reviewer 2: wait lemme reread this

Reviewer 2: oh yeah you're right

Author: actually no i think you were, the og comment was just misleading as frick

Reviewer 2: the problem is asking for something different though?

Author: we want the # of inversions
so for each element, we want the # of elements preceding it that are greater than said element

Reviewer 2: thought maybe they passed in some cryptic stuff in the type definition to make it go the other way

Reviewer 2: OOPS LMAO I THOUGHT IT WAS JUST order_of_key and not the i - stuff
